**Land of myths and legends - ruins of a fallen First Age, as well as the fruit of its planted seeds. Expanses of wild nature, might city-states, mysteries off any map, and the lasting creations of both gods and primordials, Ellesion is is home to millenia of adventures. 

Histories of the First Age indicate Ellesion as an early birthplace of the first cities, aided by direct contact with the gods as well as congregations of primal druidic circles. Fueled by ambition, ancient mortals of Ellesion are said to have pioneered the first of the flying cities, bringing with it histories of arcane war. In contrast, the Ellesion Wilds were left largely untouched by the machinations of urbanization and arcane study, becoming a thriving landscape of natural and supernatural mystery. 

After the Fall of the Flying Cities in the First Age, the continent of Ellesion was pioneered and settled by many survivors from the fall, reinforcing and concreting the lasting city-states. Empires rose and fell across its land and archipelagos, in turn creating a latent discord between people’s across the continent. 

After the Godswar laid waste to much of Eos at the end of the First Age, the cultures of Ellesion once again polarized their locations in the Second Age into just a few major city-states, abandoning smaller settlements and destroyed civilizations in favor of the protection and resources of larger communities. As transcontinental trade once again grew in the wake of the Godswar, political dominions of Ellesion laid their eyes northward into the resource-plentiful lands of Kawluurac, beginning centuries of colonization and a spreading of Ellesion culture.  As Kawluurac descended into its Age of Demons with the spread of cults and reconnection to dormant evils and powers of the betrayer gods, Ellesion too fell victim to large scale catastrophes such as the Rage of Dragons. In the centuries leading up to the end of the Second Age, Ellesion continued its growth with the immigration of many elves from overseas returning to ancestral homelands and rejoining the numerous polis of Ellesion. Many returning elves pushed westward, past the boundaries of Altrinios and Emberhold, into the Folos Forests and beyond. 

Now, in the Third Age, Ellesion has become a bastion of academic pursuits and technological innovations. More complex understandings of Ether, the Weave, and natural materials across Eos have been harnessed, resulting in the rise of skyward travel as well as flying settlements, echoing ancient histories. While the cities of Ellesion fill with a complicating arcane industrial age, the Ellesion Seas and Fields grow even more populated with wildlife - primal cultures, magical creatures, and fantastical wonders are alive like never before. With these surges of power has come instability - devotees of the divine face the perils of a culture that is leaving behind its faiths, grassroot factions and guilds embolden themselves to upset and imbalance political structures, and ancient lore and magicks that were once hidden are now being rediscovered.